README.md, before:

![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/R-blue)

# Trending Insights: Social Data Analysis and Visualization (Masters)
# Computer-Assisted Text Analysis (PhD)

Welcome to the **Trending Insights: Social Data Analysis and Visualization** or **Computer-Assisted Text Analysis** course!

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>

### Course Overview (Masters)
- **Level:** Master's Program  
- **Focus:** Social Data Analysis, Visualization Techniques, and Trend Interpretation  
- **Key Skills:** Data Wrangling, Statistical Modeling, Visualization Design, and Storytelling  

    </td>
    <td>

### Course Overview (PhD)
- **Level:** PhD Program  
- **Focus:** Text Mining, Natural Language Processing (NLP), and Automated Analysis  
- **Key Skills:** Topic Modeling, Sentiment Analysis, Computational Textual Analysis, and Methodological Design  

    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

## Repository Contents
This repository contains resources, exercises, and supporting materials for both courses. Here’s what you’ll find:
- [**Lecture Slides:**](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/tree/main/LectureSlides) Organized by week as R markdown scripts, supplemented with code examples for data analysis and visualization.
- [**Exercises:**](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/tree/main/exercises) Detailed instructions and datasets for practice.
- [**Cheat Sheets:**](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/tree/main/CheatSheets) A compilation of R cheatsheet collected from external resources. 

## Getting Started
1. [Install R and R Studio](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/blob/main/Install_R.md)

2. Download the repository as a ZIP file from the GitHub page:
   - Click the green Code button at the top right of the repository page
   - Select Download ZIP and save it to your computer.
   - Extract the ZIP file to a folder on your local machine.

   or 

2. Download each lecture markdown file.

3. Follow the course schedule for weekly tasks and project deadlines.

## Contact Information

For questions or further assistance, feel free to reach out:

Instructor: [Ayse Lokmanoglu](https://www.bu.edu/com/profile/ayse-lokmanoglu/)

GitHub: [@aysedeniz09](https://aysedeniz09.github.io/pages/repositories.html)

TA: [Jessy Wang](https://www.bu.edu/com/profile/jessy-jiaxin-wang/)

Commit message:

Added lecture 1 as a markdown and created class exercises

README.md, after:

![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/R-blue)

# Trending Insights: Social Data Analysis and Visualization (Masters)
# Computer-Assisted Text Analysis (PhD)

Welcome to the **Trending Insights: Social Data Analysis and Visualization** or **Computer-Assisted Text Analysis** course!

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>

### Course Overview (Masters)
- **Level:** Master's Program  
- **Focus:** Social Data Analysis, Visualization Techniques, and Trend Interpretation  
- **Key Skills:** Data Wrangling, Statistical Modeling, Visualization Design, and Storytelling  

    </td>
    <td>

### Course Overview (PhD)
- **Level:** PhD Program  
- **Focus:** Text Mining, Natural Language Processing (NLP), and Automated Analysis  
- **Key Skills:** Topic Modeling, Sentiment Analysis, Computational Textual Analysis, and Methodological Design  

    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

## Repository Contents
This repository contains resources, exercises, and supporting materials for both courses. Here’s what you’ll find:
- [**Lecture Slides:**](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/tree/main/LectureSlides) Organized by week and supplemented with code examples for data analysis and visualization in Markdown format for easier visual reference during lectures.
- [**Class Exercises:**](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/tree/main/exercises) Detailed instructions, datasets, and R Markdown files for hands-on practice and in-class data exploration following the lecture slides.
- [**Cheat Sheets:**](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/tree/main/CheatSheets) A compilation of R cheatsheet collected from external resources. 

## Getting Started
1. [Install R and R Studio](https://github.com/aysedeniz09/Intro_Comp_Social_Science/blob/main/Install_R.md)

2. Download the repository as a ZIP file from the GitHub page:
   - Click the green Code button at the top right of the repository page
   - Select Download ZIP and save it to your computer.
   - Extract the ZIP file to a folder on your local machine.

   or 

2. Download each lecture markdown file.

3. Follow the course schedule for weekly tasks and project deadlines.

## Contact Information

For questions or further assistance, feel free to reach out:

Instructor: [Ayse Lokmanoglu](https://www.bu.edu/com/profile/ayse-lokmanoglu/)

GitHub: [@aysedeniz09](https://aysedeniz09.github.io/pages/repositories.html)

TA: [Jessy Wang](https://www.bu.edu/com/profile/jessy-jiaxin-wang/)
